[docs] 4/n dagster as single-pane-of-glass for organization workflows (#22638)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/content/guides/migrations/observe-your-airflow-pipelines-with-dagster.mdx

---
title: "Observe your Airflow pipelines with Dagster | Dagster Docs"
description: "Learn how to leverage the features of Dagster and Airflow together."
---

# Observe your Airflow pipelines with Dagster

Dagster can act as a single entry point to all orchestration platforms in use at your organization. By injecting a small amount of code into your existing pipelines, you can report events to Dagster, where you can then visualize the full lineage of pipelines. This can be particularly useful if you have multiple Apache Airflow environments, and hope to build a catalog and observation platform through Dagster.

### Emitting materialization events from Airflow to Dagster

> Imagine you have a large number of pipelines written in Apache Airflow, and you wish to introduce Dagster into your stack. You can continue to run your existing pipelines, while building new pipelines in Dagster that are tightly integrated to your legacy systems by using custom Airflow operators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Imagine you have a large number of pipelines written in Apache Airflow and wish to introduce Dagster into your stack. By using custom Airflow operators, you can continue to run your existing pipelines while you work toward migrating them off Airflow, or while building new pipelines in Dagster that are tightly integrated with your legacy systems.
```

> To do this, we will define a `DagsterAssetOperator` operator that can be appended to the end of your Airflow DAG to indicate the processing of the pipeline has concluded. The HTTP endpoint of Dagster server, the `asset_key` and additional metadata and descriptions are to be specified to inform Dagster of the materialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this, we will define a `DagsterAssetOperator` operator downstream of your Airflow DAG to indicate that the pipeline's processing has concluded. The HTTP endpoint of the Dagster server, the `asset_key`, and additional metadata and descriptions are to be specified to inform Dagster of the materialization.
```

from airflow.utils.decorators import apply_defaults
import requests

class DagsterAssetOperator(BaseOperator):
    @apply_defaults
    def __init__(
        self,
        dagster_webserver_host: str,
        dagster_webserver_port: str,
        asset_key: str,
        metadata: Optional[Dict] = None,
        description: Optional[str] = None,
        *args,
        **kwargs,
    ):
        super().__init__(*args, **kwargs)
        self.dagster_webserver_host = dagster_webserver_host
        self.dagster_webserver_port = dagster_webserver_port
        self.asset_key = asset_key
        self.metadata = metadata or {}
        self.description = description

    def execute(self, context):
        url = f"http://{dagster_webserver_host}:{dagster_webserver_port}/report_asset_materialization/{self.asset_key}"
        payload = {"metadata": self.metadata, "description": self.description}
        headers = {"Content-Type": "application/json"}

        response = requests.post(url, json=payload, headers=headers)
        response.raise_for_status()

        self.log.info(
            f"Reported asset materialization to Dagster. Response: {response.text}"
        )
```

> Then, we can append this to our Airflow DAG to indicate that a pipeline has run to success.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, we can append this to our Airflow DAG to indicate that a pipeline has run successfully.
```

```python
import os

dagster_webserver_host = os.environ.get("DAGSTER_WEBSERVER_HOST", "localhost")
dagster_webserver_port = os.environ.get("DAGSTER_WEBSERVER_PORT", "3000")

dagster_op = DagsterAssetOperator(
    task_id="report_dagster_asset_materialization",
    dagster_webserver_host=dagster_webserver_host,
    dagster_webserver_port=dagster_webserver_port,
    asset_key="example_external_airflow_asset",
    metadata={"airflow/tag": "example", "source": "external"},
)
```

> Once the events are being emit from Airflow, there are two options for scheduling Dagster processing from the external Airflow materialization event: asset sensors, and auto materialization policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the events are emitted from Airflow, there are two options for scheduling Dagster materializations following the external Airflow materialization event: asset sensors and auto materialization policies.
```
